.TH WOLF4SDL 6 "December 2010" "1.6"

.SH NAME
wolf4sdl \- An open-source port of id Software's classic first-person shooter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wolf4sdl
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Wolf4SDL
is an open-source port of id Software's classic first-person shooter
.B Wolfenstein 3D
to the cross-plattform multimedia library. Agains others ports of olders games, this means 
that all the sprites of graphics are copy exact as the original witouth any texture improve.
.B "Simple DirectMedia Layer (SDL)"
(http://www.libsdl.org). So meant to keep the original feel while taking advantage of some 
improvements at game playing level. Due this the
.B Wolf4SDL
can work and run in any machine from 1999 or embebed devices.

The
.B wolf4sdl
produced binaries start one of the 
.B Wolf3d Full v1.4 GT/ID/Activision,
.B Wolf3d Full v1.4 Apogee (with ReadThis),
.B Wolf3d Shareware v1.4,
.B Spear of Destiny Full and Mission Disks
and
.B Spear of Destiny Demo
games, respectively as compilation flags that compiler may provide.
Run the binary and there's a notification around what its compiled and what game for.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-tedlevel\fR <level>
Starts the game in the given level
.TP
\fB\-\-baby\fR
Sets the difficulty to baby for tedlevel
.TP
\fB\-\-easy\fR
Sets the difficulty to easy for tedlevel
.TP
\fB\-\-normal\fR
Sets the difficulty to normal for tedlevel
.TP
\fB\-\-hard\fR
Sets the difficulty to hard for tedlevel
.TP
\fB\-\-nowait\fR
Skips intro screens
.TP
\fB\-\-windowed\fR
Starts the game in a window
.TP
\fB\-\-res\fR <width> <height>
Sets the screen resolution
(must be multiple of 320x200 or 320x240)
.TP
\fB\-\-resf\fR <w> <h>
Sets any screen resolution >= 320x200
(which may result in graphic errors)
.TP
\fB\-\-bits\fR <b>
Sets the screen color depth
(use this when you have palette/fading problems
allowed: 8, 16, 24, 32, default: "best" depth)
.TP
\fB\-\-joystick\fR <index>
Use the index\-th joystick if available
(\-1 to disable joystick, default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-\-joystickhat\fR <index>
Enables movement with the given coolie hat
.TP
\fB\-\-samplerate\fR <rate>
Sets the sound sample rate (given in Hz, default: 44100)
.TP
\fB\-\-audiobuffer\fR <size>
Sets the size of the audio buffer (\-> sound latency)
(given in bytes, default: 2048 / (44100 / samplerate))
.TP
\fB\-\-ignorenumchunks\fR
Ignores the number of chunks in VGAHEAD.*
(may be useful for some broken mods)

.SH AUTHORS
Wolf4SDL was originally ported and developed by Moritz "Ripper" Kroll 
.B http://www.chaos-software.de.vu)
The original Wolfenstein 3D code was develop by id Software 
.B http://www.idsoftware.com
.PP
This manual page was written by PICCORO Lenz McKAY <mckaygerhard@gmail.com>
for the VenenuX MckAY emu project but may be used by others.
